I like to grow plants rather than purchase them. This is great, because I know the source, and also because it is free. I like to think about these plants, that came from other plants elsewhere, as somehow linking my place to their original. This page acts as a loose catalog of my plants.

##Avocado trees(2)
*Both raised from seeds (I found the best method is simply peeling the seed and then sticking it in soil, then watering)
*One was heavily pruned while the other wasn't, the one that I didn't prune has more (and bigger) leaves and a thicker stem.
*Watering: when I see that the soil is dry
*In the fall and winter, the humidity indoors can be quite low, and the leaves can brown. A humidifier, or putting them in a plastic bag can help:
=>instructions/greenbag.gmi Green-bag

##Apple tree
*I tried to raise trees which are local to Hungary, but in most cases, the seeds require cold stratification, which is quite a hassle. So I tried to use apple seeds taken from apples which were in the fridge for a longer period. I almost gave up on them, but then one came to life!
*The apple was from our apple tree in my home town
*It's a small, cute little plant, with 5 leaves. I'm guessing it will grow more in the spring.
*Watering: every 2-3 days

##Spider plants(2)
*Raised from the hanging little plants that spider plants produce; I got them from someone in our apartment building
*These are very tough plants which tolerate low light
*Watering: when I see that the soil is dry

##Succulents(4-5)
*These are succulents which grow in cracks, not the cactus-like kind
*They are from the city I was born in, from our garden there
*Watering: every 3-4 days, these don't really like being dry(even though they are technically succuents
*they are prone to host green mites
