# Reporting from procastinationland

I have always been a procrastinator. But each time, the deadline would get closer, and I would eventually do the thing in time, usually being satisfied with the end product. But this time it feels different, the rut that I am in seems inescapable. Most of my time is spent stressing over the fact that I am not working on my master's thesis, but also feeling paralyzed, unable to start the work.

I have tried many things, and was able to get some things done, but I can't seem to be able to get into the rhytm of research. I tried pomodoros, they sort of work sometimes, but they don't allow me to really get into reading, I feel that stopping after 25 minutes interrupts the flow and "removes" me from the text in a way that makes it harder to get back into, and also to understand the big picture. I tried going to the library instead of staying at home, which again, works, but for some reason, I tire much faster there, and cannot get as much work done as I would at home. I have divided my tasks into smaller sections, but they are still daunting. Thinking about the thesis makes me anxious.

As I am typing this, I realize that this is a very good problem to have, that I am privileged to be in a master's programme, and to have so much free time that wasting it is even an option. I don't have to work to support myself, this is a huge privilege as well.

But I cannot use this time well. So sorry, if this problem isn't very "serius", to me it is, because I really despise myself for not being able to do something which I consider my passion, academia.

I am sending this message out to you, nice people of Gemini, in the hopes that someone might have a suggestion on how to beat this. Thank you for reading.